.\" A man page for service(8). -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\" modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions of the
.\" GNU General Public License v.2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for 
.\" more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>
.TH service 8 "Jan 2006"

.SH NAME
service \- run a System V init script

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBservice\fR \fISCRIPT\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

\fBservice \-\-status\-all\fR

\fBservice\fR \fB\-\-help\fR | \fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-version\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B service
runs a System V init script in as predictable environment as possible,
removing most environment variables
and with current working directory set to \fB/\fR.

The
.I SCRIPT
parameter specifies a System V init script,
located in \fB/etc/init.d/\fISCRIPT\fR.
The supported values of
.I COMMAND
depend on the invoked script,
.B service
passes
.I COMMAND
and
.I OPTIONS
it to the init script unmodified.
All scripts should support at least the
.B start
and
.B stop
commands.
As a special case, if
.I COMMAND
is \fB\-\-full-restart\fR, the script is run twice, first with the
.B stop
command, then with the
.B start
command.

.B service \-\-status\-all
runs all init scripts, in alphabetical order, with the
.B status
command.

If the init script file does not exist, the script tries to use
.B legacy actions.
If there is no suitable legacy action found and
.I COMMAND
is one of actions specified in LSB Core Specification, input is redirected to the
.B systemctl.
Otherwise the command fails with return code 2.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/etc/init.d\fR
The directory containing System V init scripts.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBPATH\fR, \fBTERM\fR
The only environment variables passed to the init scripts.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkconfig (8),
.BR ntsysv(8),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR systemctl (8),
.BR systemd.service (5)
